# IOTSEC01 — Security

**Pillar**: Security  
**Best Practices**: 1

---

## IOTSEC01-BP01 Assign unique identities to each IoT device

When a device connects to other devices or cloud services, it
must establish trust by authenticating using credentials such as
X.509 certificates (with proof of having the private key) or
security tokens. You can find available options from the IoT
solution of your choice, and implement device registry and
identity stores to associate devices, metadata and user
permissions. The solution should enable each device (or Thing)
to have a unique name (or ThingName) in the device registry, and
the solution should make sure that each device has an associated
unique identity principal, such as an X.509 certificate or
security token. Identity principals, such as certificates,
should not be shared between devices. Detection of multiple
devices using the same identity credentials indicates an issue
that requires investigation. This could be due to improper
device setup or potential unauthorized cloning of device
credentials.

**Level of risk exposed if this best
practice is not established:** High

**Prescriptive guidance
IOTSEC01-BP01-01** *Use X.509 client
certificates to authenticate over TLS 1.2/1.3.*

We recommend that each device be given a unique key or certificate
to enable fine-grained device management, including certificate
revocation. Devices must support rotation, refresh, and
replacement of certificates to support continued operation. For
example, AWS IoT Core supports AWS IoT-generated X.509
certificates or your own X.509 certificates for device
authentication.

**Prescriptive guidance
IOTSEC01-BP01-02** *Choose the appropriate
certificate vending mechanisms for your use case.*

We recommend using native provisioning mechanisms to onboard
devices when they already have a device certificate (and
associated private key) on them. For example, you can use
just-in-time provisioning (JITP) or just-in-time registration
(JITR) that provisions devices when they first connect to AWS IoT.

**Prescriptive guidance
IOTSEC01-BP01-03** *Use security bearer tokens
only if necessary.*

If the devices cannot use X.509 certificates, or you have an
existing fleet of devices with a proprietary access control
mechanism that requires use of bearer tokens such as OAuth with
JWT or SAML 2.0 tokens, use custom authentication mechanisms. For example,
when a device attempts to connect to AWS IoT, it sends a JWT
which was generated by their identity provider in the HTTP
header or query string of requests. The token is validated by
AWS IoT custom authorizer and the connection is established. All
communications must be performed over TLS-protected (encrypted)
connections using strong cipher-suites.

**Prescriptive guidance
IOTSEC01-BP01-04** *Use a consistent naming
convention that aligns MQTT topics with your device
identity.*

It is important to use a standard set of naming conventions when
designing device names and MQTT topics. For example, we
recommend using the same client identifier (`ClientId`) for the
device as the IoT Thing Name (`ThingName`). This will also
simplify the design for including relevant routing information
for the device in the topic namespace.

IOTSEC02: How do you secure your devices
and protect device credentials?

Your IoT devices and identity credentials (certificates, private
keys, or tokens) must be secured throughout their lifecycle. To
support device authenticity, your IoT hardware must securely
store, manage, and restrict access to the identities that the
device uses to authenticate itself with the cloud. By securing
your devices and storing your device credentials safely, you can
reduce the risk of unauthorized users misusing device
credentials.

*Source: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/iot-lens/identity-and-access-management.html*

---
